README.md, before:

# Migration Tracker

## Used technologies

- [Fly app deployment](https://fly.io) with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- Production-ready [SQLite Database](https://sqlite.org)
- Healthcheck endpoint for [Fly backups region fallbacks](https://fly.io/docs/reference/configuration/#services-http_checks)
- [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) for deploy on merge to production and staging environments
- Email/Password Authentication with [cookie-based sessions](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/api/remix#createcookiesessionstorage)
- Database ORM with [Prisma](https://prisma.io)
- Styling with [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- End-to-end testing with [Cypress](https://cypress.io)
- Local third party request mocking with [MSW](https://mswjs.io)
- Unit testing with [Vitest](https://vitest.dev) and [Testing Library](https://testing-library.com)
- Code formatting with [Prettier](https://prettier.io)
- Linting with [ESLint](https://eslint.org)
- Static Types with [TypeScript](https://typescriptlang.org)

## Development

- This step only applies if you've opted out of having the CLI install dependencies for you:

  ```sh
  npx remix init
  ```

- Initial setup: _If you just generated this project, this step has been done for you._

  ```sh
  npm run setup
  ```

- Start dev server:

  ```sh
  npm run dev
  ```

This starts your app in development mode, rebuilding assets on file changes.

The database seed script creates a new user with some data you can use to get started:

- Email: `rachel@remix.run`
- Password: `racheliscool`

## Prisma

After updating the database schema in `prisma/schema.prisma`, run the following commands:

- ```sh
  npx prisma generate
  ```
  to generate new TypeScript definitions for the database schema
  
- ```sh
  npx prisma format
  ```
  (optional, automatically formats schema.prisma and fixes some errors like missing opposite relation fields)

- ```sh
  npx db push
  ```
  (use this during development to overwrite the current database)
  *OR*
  ```sh
  npx migrate dev
  ```
  to create a migration and keep existing data (e.g. in other environments)

### Relevant code:
note
This is a pretty simple animal migration track app. The main functionality is creating users, logging in and out, and creating and deleting migrations.

- creating users, and logging in and out [./app/models/user.server.ts](./app/models/user.server.ts)
- user sessions, and verifying them [./app/session.server.ts](./app/session.server.ts)
- creating, and deleting migrations [./app/models/migration.server.ts](./app/models/migration.server.ts)

## Deployment

This Remix Stack comes with two GitHub Actions that handle automatically deploying your app to production and staging environments.

Prior to your first deployment, you'll need to do a few things:

- [Install Fly](https://fly.io/docs/getting-started/installing-flyctl/)

- Sign up and log in to Fly

  ```sh
  fly auth signup
  ```

  > **Note:** If you have more than one Fly account, ensure that you are signed into the same account in the Fly CLI as you are in the browser. In your terminal, run `fly auth whoami` and ensure the email matches the Fly account signed into the browser.

- Create two apps on Fly, one for staging and one for production:

  ```sh
  fly apps create migration-tracker-ce8f
  fly apps create migration-tracker-ce8f-staging
  ```

  > **Note:** Make sure this name matches the `app` set in your `fly.toml` file. Otherwise, you will not be able to deploy.

  - Initialize Git.

  ```sh
  git init
  ```

- Create a new [GitHub Repository](https://repo.new), and then add it as the remote for your project. **Do not push your app yet!**

  ```sh
  git remote add origin <ORIGIN_URL>
  ```

- Add a `FLY_API_TOKEN` to your GitHub repo. To do this, go to your user settings on Fly and create a new [token](https://web.fly.io/user/personal_access_tokens/new), then add it to [your repo secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets) with the name `FLY_API_TOKEN`.

- Add a `SESSION_SECRET` to your fly app secrets, to do this you can run the following commands:

  ```sh
  fly secrets set SESSION_SECRET=$(openssl rand -hex 32) --app migration-tracker-ce8f
  fly secrets set SESSION_SECRET=$(openssl rand -hex 32) --app migration-tracker-ce8f-staging
  ```

  If you don't have openssl installed, you can also use [1password](https://1password.com/password-generator/) to generate a random secret, just replace `$(openssl rand -hex 32)` with the generated secret.

- Create a persistent volume for the sqlite database for both your staging and production environments. Run the following:

  ```sh
  fly volumes create data --size 1 --app migration-tracker-ce8f
  fly volumes create data --size 1 --app migration-tracker-ce8f-staging
  ```

Now that everything is set up you can commit and push your changes to your repo. Every commit to your `main` branch will trigger a deployment to your production environment, and every commit to your `dev` branch will trigger a deployment to your staging environment.

### Connecting to your database

The sqlite database lives at `/data/sqlite.db` in your deployed application. You can connect to the live database by running `fly ssh console -C database-cli`.

### Getting Help with Deployment

If you run into any issues deploying to Fly, make sure you've followed all of the steps above and if you have, then post as many details about your deployment (including your app name) to [the Fly support community](https://community.fly.io). They're normally pretty responsive over there and hopefully can help resolve any of your deployment issues and questions.

## GitHub Actions

We use GitHub Actions for continuous integration and deployment. Anything that gets into the `main` branch will be deployed to production after running tests/build/etc. Anything in the `dev` branch will be deployed to staging.

## Testing

### Cypress

We use Cypress for our End-to-End tests in this project. You'll find those in the `cypress` directory. As you make changes, add to an existing file or create a new file in the `cypress/e2e` directory to test your changes.

We use [`@testing-library/cypress`](https://testing-library.com/cypress) for selecting elements on the page semantically.

To run these tests in development, run `npm run test:e2e:dev` which will start the dev server for the app as well as the Cypress client. Make sure the database is running in docker as described above.

We have a utility for testing authenticated features without having to go through the login flow:

```ts
cy.login();
// you are now logged in as a new user
```

We also have a utility to auto-delete the user at the end of your test. Just make sure to add this in each test file:

```ts
afterEach(() => {
  cy.cleanupUser();
});
```

That way, we can keep your local db clean and keep your tests isolated from one another.

### Vitest

For lower level tests of utilities and individual components, we use `vitest`. We have DOM-specific assertion helpers via [`@testing-library/jest-dom`](https://testing-library.com/jest-dom).

### Type Checking

This project uses TypeScript. It's recommended to get TypeScript set up for your editor to get a really great in-editor experience with type checking and auto-complete. To run type checking across the whole project, run `npm run typecheck`.

### Linting

This project uses ESLint for linting. That is configured in `.eslintrc.js`.

### Formatting

We use [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) for auto-formatting in this project. It's recommended to install an editor plugin (like the [VSCode Prettier plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=esbenp.prettier-vscode)) to get auto-formatting on save. There's also a `npm run format` script you can run to format all files in the project.

Commit message:

Add setup instructions and future work to README.md

README.md, after:

# Migration Tracker

## Setup instructions
- Clone this repository
- If you want to use notifications, get a [Google App Password](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/185833) for the email account you want to use
- Configure .env according to .env.example
- `npm install`
- `npm run dev`
- Visit [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

## Assumptions
- One species can only have one migration (to create multiple, create multiple different species with different classifiers in the title)

## Future work
- Create timeline to show migration over time
- Create a verification system for biologists so they need to be approved by an admin/ operator
- Implement image upload
- Integrate Google Places Autocomplete API or similar geo resolver/ search service
- Add more validations to migrations (e.g. same place visited twice in a row)
- More collaborative data model => who can edit migrations created by other users? Discussions, edit history?
- Add usernames so observations don't have to show the email address of user accounts (PII)

## Used technologies
- [React](https://reactjs.org/)
- [Remix](https://remix.run/)
- Production-ready [SQLite Database](https://sqlite.org)
- Healthcheck endpoint for [Fly backups region fallbacks](https://fly.io/docs/reference/configuration/#services-http_checks)
- [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) for deploy on merge to production and staging environments
- Email/Password Authentication with [cookie-based sessions](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/api/remix#createcookiesessionstorage)
- Database ORM with [Prisma](https://prisma.io)
- Styling with [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- End-to-end testing with [Cypress](https://cypress.io)
- Local third party request mocking with [MSW](https://mswjs.io)
- Unit testing with [Vitest](https://vitest.dev) and [Testing Library](https://testing-library.com)
- Code formatting with [Prettier](https://prettier.io)
- Linting with [ESLint](https://eslint.org)
- Static Types with [TypeScript](https://typescriptlang.org)

## Development

- This step only applies if you've opted out of having the CLI install dependencies for you:

  ```sh
  npx remix init
  ```

- Initial setup: _If you just generated this project, this step has been done for you._

  ```sh
  npm run setup
  ```

- Start dev server:

  ```sh
  npm run dev
  ```

This starts your app in development mode, rebuilding assets on file changes.

The database seed script creates a new user with some data you can use to get started:

- Email: `rachel@remix.run`
- Password: `racheliscool`

## Prisma

After updating the database schema in `prisma/schema.prisma`, run the following commands:

- ```sh
  npx prisma generate
  ```
  to generate new TypeScript definitions for the database schema
  
- ```sh
  npx prisma format
  ```
  (optional, automatically formats schema.prisma and fixes some errors like missing opposite relation fields)

- ```sh
  npx db push
  ```
  (use this during development to overwrite the current database)
  *OR*
  ```sh
  npx migrate dev
  ```
  to create a migration and keep existing data (e.g. in other environments)

### Relevant code:
note
This is a pretty simple animal migration track app. The main functionality is creating users, logging in and out, and creating and deleting migrations.

- creating users, and logging in and out [./app/models/user.server.ts](./app/models/user.server.ts)
- user sessions, and verifying them [./app/session.server.ts](./app/session.server.ts)
- creating, and deleting migrations [./app/models/migration.server.ts](./app/models/migration.server.ts)

## Deployment

This Remix Stack comes with two GitHub Actions that handle automatically deploying your app to production and staging environments.

Prior to your first deployment, you'll need to do a few things:

- [Install Fly](https://fly.io/docs/getting-started/installing-flyctl/)

- Sign up and log in to Fly

  ```sh
  fly auth signup
  ```

  > **Note:** If you have more than one Fly account, ensure that you are signed into the same account in the Fly CLI as you are in the browser. In your terminal, run `fly auth whoami` and ensure the email matches the Fly account signed into the browser.

- Create two apps on Fly, one for staging and one for production:

  ```sh
  fly apps create migration-tracker-ce8f
  fly apps create migration-tracker-ce8f-staging
  ```

  > **Note:** Make sure this name matches the `app` set in your `fly.toml` file. Otherwise, you will not be able to deploy.

  - Initialize Git.

  ```sh
  git init
  ```

- Create a new [GitHub Repository](https://repo.new), and then add it as the remote for your project. **Do not push your app yet!**

  ```sh
  git remote add origin <ORIGIN_URL>
  ```

- Add a `FLY_API_TOKEN` to your GitHub repo. To do this, go to your user settings on Fly and create a new [token](https://web.fly.io/user/personal_access_tokens/new), then add it to [your repo secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets) with the name `FLY_API_TOKEN`.

- Add a `SESSION_SECRET` to your fly app secrets, to do this you can run the following commands:

  ```sh
  fly secrets set SESSION_SECRET=$(openssl rand -hex 32) --app migration-tracker-ce8f
  fly secrets set SESSION_SECRET=$(openssl rand -hex 32) --app migration-tracker-ce8f-staging
  ```

  If you don't have openssl installed, you can also use [1password](https://1password.com/password-generator/) to generate a random secret, just replace `$(openssl rand -hex 32)` with the generated secret.

- Create a persistent volume for the sqlite database for both your staging and production environments. Run the following:

  ```sh
  fly volumes create data --size 1 --app migration-tracker-ce8f
  fly volumes create data --size 1 --app migration-tracker-ce8f-staging
  ```

Now that everything is set up you can commit and push your changes to your repo. Every commit to your `main` branch will trigger a deployment to your production environment, and every commit to your `dev` branch will trigger a deployment to your staging environment.

### Connecting to your database

The sqlite database lives at `/data/sqlite.db` in your deployed application. You can connect to the live database by running `fly ssh console -C database-cli`.

### Getting Help with Deployment

If you run into any issues deploying to Fly, make sure you've followed all of the steps above and if you have, then post as many details about your deployment (including your app name) to [the Fly support community](https://community.fly.io). They're normally pretty responsive over there and hopefully can help resolve any of your deployment issues and questions.

## GitHub Actions

We use GitHub Actions for continuous integration and deployment. Anything that gets into the `main` branch will be deployed to production after running tests/build/etc. Anything in the `dev` branch will be deployed to staging.

## Testing

### Cypress

We use Cypress for our End-to-End tests in this project. You'll find those in the `cypress` directory. As you make changes, add to an existing file or create a new file in the `cypress/e2e` directory to test your changes.

We use [`@testing-library/cypress`](https://testing-library.com/cypress) for selecting elements on the page semantically.

To run these tests in development, run `npm run test:e2e:dev` which will start the dev server for the app as well as the Cypress client. Make sure the database is running in docker as described above.

We have a utility for testing authenticated features without having to go through the login flow:

```ts
cy.login();
// you are now logged in as a new user
```

We also have a utility to auto-delete the user at the end of your test. Just make sure to add this in each test file:

```ts
afterEach(() => {
  cy.cleanupUser();
});
```

That way, we can keep your local db clean and keep your tests isolated from one another.

### Vitest

For lower level tests of utilities and individual components, we use `vitest`. We have DOM-specific assertion helpers via [`@testing-library/jest-dom`](https://testing-library.com/jest-dom).

### Type Checking

This project uses TypeScript. It's recommended to get TypeScript set up for your editor to get a really great in-editor experience with type checking and auto-complete. To run type checking across the whole project, run `npm run typecheck`.

### Linting

This project uses ESLint for linting. That is configured in `.eslintrc.js`.

### Formatting

We use [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) for auto-formatting in this project. It's recommended to install an editor plugin (like the [VSCode Prettier plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=esbenp.prettier-vscode)) to get auto-formatting on save. There's also a `npm run format` script you can run to format all files in the project.
